So here is where you write comments and I could put any type of comment I wanted on here I could say
you know I have new design tweaks for you to integrate.
And I can comment like that.
OK.
So now the person who is a theoretical freelancer would see this almost immediately.
What I can also do which is extremely helpful is I can just go up here and add attachments so I can
attach a computer or Dropbox Google Drive.
So say this person is building a screen and I just changed it tweaked a small design on it and I want
them to change that.
All you have to do is go up here and attach from a computer and import it into this so quite literally
there's no more of this hey where's the design that we need.
Missing the wrong I have the right version of the design.
You don't have to send them this big convoluted folder full of designs.
You can literally just put it on each individual task.
And one way of doing this is say if you want to if you're working with the developer and you want them
to build one big screen.
So I say like build per screen you would put this task up immediately go over here give the drill down
information specifically what you mean.
Any comments you have any directives you have and Attash the designs.
So the person comes up sees what they need to start working on first and then grabs the designs downloads
them and starts on it.
So that's a great way of dealing with inversion tracking and specifically finding designs.
OK so there's a little other functionality over here.
You can set a due date and this is very very helpful when you're working with a freelancer or a contractor
because a lot of times you're going to be inclined not to give them deadlines and that's generally not
a great idea.
It's always a good idea to give them a deadline because it will allow them to prioritize what exactly
is most important and allow them to at least give you some type of idea of how quickly they're working
and when it's going to be done and the way that I suggest doing this especially with contract or outsource
labor is you don't set a due date yourself.
That doesn't really make sense even if you are technical.
Even if you are very ingrained in the process and you know exactly how long it'll take to build the
second screen it's not worth it for you to do that.
It just builds resentment and it's inevitably going to be incorrect.
You want them to set the due date and then you can have final say about whether or not you think it's
going to take too long and you can have that discussion with them.
But it makes more sense for them to reasonably give you a due date if they think it's going to take
them two days.
They should do that if they think it's going to take them three days.
They should do that.
Don't I always suggest don't try to shove that down their throat and make them make them accepted due
date that you arbitrarily made up in your head.
So right here and then all I can say when I want it to be done here is today you can't say in the past
but you know let's say it's due in five days so I could say the 29th.
OK.
I can even be specific like say I have a product launch or an e-mail going out.
It's going out at 3:00 p.m. so I need to have this done and uploaded at 2:00 pm.
I can also set it to a recurring task and I can also you know do things like liking it.
That's helpful when you're in large organizations because people can like things.
It's helpful when you add adding things like ideas in here and then people can say and like it and then
you can go up here and sort by popularity.
OK.
Now now that you've set a due date on one of your task what you can then do is go and look at your calendar
for your project and this is kind of cool what it'll do is it will automatically populate your task
in a calendar.
So I'm literally looking at this and today's Monday I could look at Monday and say oh by tomorrow I
have I expected this section to be done or this feature to be done or this bug to be fixed and I can
see oh this one is specifically going to be uploaded at 2 pm.
I'm not familiar with it or I'd knock off my head or I can just click it and go directly to it and then
right there I can just see what exactly it is.
And typically with your freelancer your contractor you can have a long thread of you know what's going
on.
Explanation's conversations et cetera et cetera.
So very very helpful.
Big projects this will fill up very quickly.
This is also very helpful too.
You can go directly to attachments.
Now if I go to attachment So what's going to happen is it's going to take every single attachment that
are in any of those threads any of those tasks and it's going to put it here.
So it's going to be a big pile of all of the assets all of the files all of the instructions you needed
for the task.
And that's very very helpful if you're just looking specifically for a file.
You don't need to know what thread it was posted in.
You can always just go to this pile right here OK one of the other things that you it's very important
to understand I do this is these are individual tasks but they don't have to be tasks.
I can turn these into sections of I want to.
OK.
So now if I wanted one of these to instead be a section as opposed to a task I could just literally
put a colon at the end of it.
So you know I put a colon that turned it into a section as opposed to a task.
Now I do want to do sections sections make a lot more sense because I can build this out say my application
has five screens I could build you know first screen and then we could say build second screen and we
could say build a screen like that and we go all the way down to five.
You also create them by going like this and just going new section right here and I'll add one now if
I wanted to add a task underneath this all I'd have to do is hit enter and there you go.
Now I have a task now I can get much more granular with it.
I can now say specifically what needs to be happening in the first screen.
So the screen has the Facebook log in I could say Facebook log in to be installed and you know you could
say logo must be displayed etc. etc..
So what this allows us to do is branch them out into sections break down the sections in individual
pieces and then allow them to update you as individual things get finished and you have a real time
kind of trail of what's happening as they go and they click through them and you see kind of from a
project standpoint how quickly your application or your project or whatever it is you're working on
or building gets filled up.
And now as I am doing this I can again go back and look at the complete tasks.
One of the more interesting things you can do then is go to your project and just double tap it and
it'll actually give you a project overview over here right here where it says your progress as tasks
are being added and those tasks will remain so at the very beginning we might add say 100 different
things and then right over here as we start knocking them off we can see over time how quickly we are
either accelerating in our project completion or slowing down.
That's really helpful to see if you have a freelancer's just knocking out tasks knocking out a task
and then all of a sudden maybe has another project pop up or you get distracted and then you see it
start to plateau or drop and all of a sudden that's a good way of channeling that they've lost enthusiasm
or lost interest or lost time.
You can also use statuses right here.
Here you can just post the statuses is helpful if you have multiple people working on a project and
that is not uncommon.
If I had multiple people I could just say freelance or to email feel bad for freelance or to at gmail
they're about to get e-mailed but I can also add them into this project.
And then all of a sudden you know I can add statuses and any time I add a status they'll get notified
of it so I could say you know project going well.
I could also say
I can also say you know the mobile application has crashed.
Nothing works.
So yes ok set that status everyone gets notified.
So you set that status it goes to pretty much everyone when you need to do it on Harris to notify people
and then add them.
So you could add that out and then any time I push a status it will quite literally just push that message
to everyone on their phones they'll get a push notification from the application.
Very helpful.
This is something you can use when your application is live or whatever it is and you need immediate
feedback or immediate fixes.
Very very helpful thing else so we really need to cover is the inbox and you can see up here in the
inbox really all this is as you know as you have threads and idea of multiple projects as people message
your update threads.
It's going to populate in here.
And as you get them populated you can say that you read them and they disappear.
So this is typically something you can always check just to see what exactly you need to put your attention
towards that you're not so when you didn't you you their e-mail all the time.
OK so we've covered pretty much everything you need to know to get acquainted with a sauna.
Very very simple.
It's all task based.
It has a very powerful notification system very easy to integrate your freelancers contractors into
your projects makes it such that there's really no excuse for them not to join it.
And overall a very easy way to keep track of what you're doing and keep track of where your project
is now that you're acquainted we can move on and I can show you how we use a sauna when we're building
our projects and what's the easy kind of template for setting up asana projects and for how you handle
the actual workflow with a freelancer.
So I'll see you guys in next lecture.